h1(#radiant_0_9). Radiant 0.9

h2. define_routes has been deprecated

Radiant Extensions may now create routes in the extension's config/routes.rb file.

h2. AdminUI Tab API has changed

Radiant now supports nested navigation. Selecting a tab in the interface will bring you to the first listed navigation item for that tab. You will no longer just add a single tab for each area you need to add. You may add links to existing tabs, or add your own tabs and add links there.
Additionally, tab visibility is no longer determined when adding the tab, but the controllers will be checked for a user's access to the path specified. 

*Old:*
<notextile><pre><code class="ruby">
def activate
  admin.tabs.add "Advertisements", "/admin/advertisements", :after => "Layouts", :visibility => [:all]
end
</code></pre></notextile>
*New:*
<notextile><pre><code class="ruby">def activate
  tab "Content" do
    add_item "Advertisements", "/admin/advertisements", :after => "Pages"
  end
  tab "Advertisements" do # or, add your own tab
    add_item "Recently Created", "/admin/advertisements/recent"
    add_item "Expiring", "/admin/advertisements/expiring"
  end
end</code></pre></notextile>

Using the old style "admin.tabs.add" will continue to work in 0.9 (placing links in the "Content" tab) but it is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
The default tabs are "Content" (consisting of Pages) and "Design" (consisting of Snippets and Layouts).

Be sure to set "only_allow_acces_to" in your controller if you need to restrict access based on a user's role (see an example "in the layouts controller.":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/blob/master/app/controllers/admin/layouts_controller.rb#L2-L5)

h1(#radiant_0_8). Radiant 0.8.0

h2. 1. The @default_order@ plugin has been removed.

*Old:*
<notextile><pre><code class="ruby">order_by :name</code></pre></notextile>
*New:*
<notextile><pre><code class="ruby">default_scope :order => "name ASC"</code></pre></notextile>

h2. 2. @application.rb@ → @application_controller.rb@

@application.rb@ has changed to @application_controller.rb@ in accordance with Rails convention.

*Old:*
<notextile><pre><code class="ruby">require_dependency 'application'</code></pre></notextile>

*New:*
<notextile><pre><code class="ruby">require_dependency 'application_controller'</code></pre></notextile>

h2. 3. @ResponseCache@ → @Radiant::Cache@

Remove all references to @ResponseCache@.

If you want to cache non-page items, simply apply an appropriate @Cache-Control@ header to your response using ActionController's  @expires@ method. Use @expires_now@ to prevent caching.

To manually clear the cache:

<notextile><pre><code class="ruby">Radiant::Cache.clear</code></pre></notextile>

@Radiant::Cache@ is built on top of @Rack::Cache@, which is included in vendor. As a result of this change, @SiteController@ no longer has a @show_uncached_page@ method. All requests to @SiteController@ imply an uncached or expired page.

h2. 4. Testing Frameworks: RSpec 1.2.4, Cucumber 0.3.x, Webrat 0.4.4+

Now uses RSpec 1.2.4 (exact version), any 0.3 family version of Cucumber, and Webrat 0.4.4 or greater (in the same family).  These are added as gem dependencies to @config/environments/test.rb@. @spec_integration@ is no longer used.

h2. 5. Rails 2.3.2

Rails 2.3.2 is included.  Please refer to information on upgrading from Rails 2.1.x for any significant changes there.

h1(#radiant_0_7). Radiant 0.7.x

h2. 1. Update to Controller naming convention

Before 0.7.x Radiant used to have things like Admin::PageController and Admin::SnippetController (i.e. singular controller names). .As of Radiant 0.7.0, Radiant now complies with Rails' naming conventions and uses plural controller names like Admin::PagesController and Admin::SnippetsController. 

h2. 2. Load test data with Datasets, instead of Scenarios

From 0.6.5 to 0.6.9, Radiant used the _scenarios_ gem to load test data. With version 0.7.0, _scenarios_ were replaced with _datasets_, which share a very similar API, but enable the test data to load much faster. If you were using _scenarios_ to load test data in your extension before version 7, you need only make a few small modifications to make the switch to _datasets_.

Look for the following lines in the file @spec/spec_helper@:

<notextile><pre><code class="ruby">require 'scenarios'

if File.directory?(File.dirname(__FILE__) + "/scenarios")
  Scenario.load_paths.unshift File.dirname(__FILE__) + "/scenarios"
end
</code></pre></notextile>

Delete those lines, and replace them with the following line:

<notextile><pre><code class="ruby">Dataset::Resolver.default << (File.dirname(__FILE__) + "/datasets")
</code></pre></notextile>

You should also replace all references to _scenarios_ with _datasets_. In particular, look out for the following:

* rename the @spec/scenarios@ folder to @spec/datasets@
* rename all files within the @spec/datasets@ folder ending in @_scenario@ to end with @_dataset@
* change all classes which inherit from @Scenario::Base@ to inherit instead from @Dataset::Base@. The class name itself may also have to change, e.g. @class UsersScenario < Scenario::Base@ would become @class UsersDataset < Dataset::Base@
* when loading data into your specs, replace @scenario@ with @dataset@,  e.g. @scenario :users@ would become @dataset :users@

The API for _datasets_ is identical to that of _scenarios_, so you should not have to modify the actual dataset files.