h2(#license). What License is Radiant released under?

The current MIT license text can be found at "http://github.com/radiant/radiant/blob/master/LICENSE":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/blob/master/LICENSE

h2(#pro-con). Does Radiant Have what I need?

h3. Pros

* *Stable* - Radiant is very well tested and is used in production on a number of websites.
* *Flexible* - Radiant can be a blog, a website, a wiki, or anything content related that needs to be easily maintained.
* *Extensible* - Developers like working with Radiant, and inexpensive customizations are readily available.
* *Actively Maintained* - Radiant has a dedicated group of core developers and is being constantly improved.
* *Rails is Vendor'ed* - Radiant comes with the appropriate version of Rails in vendor/rails. The Radiant gem will maintain Rails for you as updates occur.
* *Easy integration* - Check out the [[Share Layouts Extension]], which allows a Rails app built on top of Radiant to use the dynamic layouts stored in the database for Radiant. Also, look at the [[Import Export Extension]].
* *Localization support* - Via DB; have a look at the [[Translator Extension]].
* *WYSIWYG editor* - Radiant extensions exist for FCKeditor, TinyMCE and WMD Editor.
* *Single sign on* - Radiant's User model is available to the local Rails app. See [[Accessing Radiant's User model]].

h3. Cons

* backend-i18n implemented but not released yet, plugins to be i18n ready and translated

h2(#templates). What are database templates?

They are default options for your database. If you want to see examples of an RSS feed, the "Styled Blog" will give you an example, if you want a look at a full-blown brochure website the "Roasters" template provides an example. If you want to create your [[layouts]], [[snippets]], and [[pages]] from scratch, use "Empty". Whichever you use, they are merely starting points.