Having Git installed on your system will make it simpler to download, install and manage Radiant extensions.

h2. Using Macports

If you have Macports installed, you can use it to install Git from the Terminal, like so…

<pre><code>[sudo] port install git-core</code></pre>

For information on installing Macports refer to "their documentation":http://www.macports.org/install.php.

h2. Using Homebrew

If you have Homebrew installed, you can use it to install Git from the Terminal, like so…

<pre><code>brew install git</code></pre>


For information on installing Homebrew refer to "their documentation":http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew.

h2. Using the Finder

You can download Git as a .pkg file to install using Mac OS X's Installer.

# "Download the latest version":git
# Double click the downloaded @.dmg@ file
# Double click the @.pkg@ file
# Follow the instructions from the installer
# Ensure everything succeeded
## Open the Terminal application from Applications / Utilities
## Run: @git --version@

If you don't see something like @git version 1.6.2@ something went wrong, most likely you don't have the install directory in your @PATH@. To find out if this is the case run:

  export PATH="/usr/local/git/bin:$PATH"
  git --version

If you now see a version number as expected your shell's @PATH@ is the problem. Run @echo $SHELL@ and then refer to Google for the details of your shell (for example "add path bash").

[git]http://code.google.com/p/git-osx-installer/downloads/list?can=3&q=&sort=-uploaded&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+Size+DownloadCount

h2. GitX

Additionally you may want to install "GitX":http://gitx.frim.nl/index.html which adds a very nice GUI on top of the Git tools.