Radiant is a no-fluff, open source content management system designed for small teams. It is similar to Textpattern or MovableType, but is a general purpose content management system (not just a blogging engine).

# "Installation":#installation
# "The Basics":#the-basics
# "Extensions":#extensions
# "How Tos":#how-tos
# "Upgrading a Radiant site to a new version":#upgrading-a-radiant-site-to-a-new-version
# "Troubleshooting":#troubleshooting
# "Getting Help":#getting-help
# "Radiant in Action":#radiant-in-action
# "Radiant Pros":#radiant-pros
# "Developers":#developers
# "Releases":#releases

h2. <a name="wiki-install"></a>Installation

If you just want a quick and easy overview of the installation process take a look at the "Installing Radiant Screencast":mov (direct link to QuickTime movie), the "full post":post is on the "Radiant Blog":blog.

[mov]http://radiant.s3.amazonaws.com/screencasts/01_install.mov
[post]http://radiantcms.org/blog/archives/2008/09/05/first-screencast/
[blog]http://radiantcms.org/blog/

*Don't want to get into a whole installation just to test it out?* There is a "live demonstration site":demo available for you to experiment with, the "*Username*" is "*admin*" and the "*Password*" is "*radiant*"; and don't worry about breaking anything the entire demo site is reset to a pristine state on the hour.

[demo]http://demo.radiantcms.org/admin/login

* [[Generic Installation Instructions|Installation]]
* *By Operating System*
** [[Gentoo|Installing on Gentoo]]
** [[Mac OS|Installing on Mac OS X]]
** [[Ubuntu|Installing on Ubuntu]]
** [[Windows|Installing on Windows]]
* *By Web Host*
** [[A Small Orange|Installing on A Small Orange]]
** [[Bluehost|Installing on Bluehost]]
** [[Dreamhost Using SSH|Installing on Dreamhost Using SSH]]
** [[Heroku|Installing on Heroku]]
** [[HostingRails|Installing on HostingRails]]
** [[Prime Hosting|Installing on Prime Hosting]]
** [[Site5|Installing on Site5]]
** [[Slicehost|Installing on Slicehost]]
** [[TextDrive|Installing on TextDrive]]
** "Media Temple":http://kb.mediatemple.net/questions/152/Installing%20Radiant
** "RoseHosting.com":https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/install-radiant-on-ubuntu-14-04/
** "Updated Dreamhost Install":http://blog.ajsiegel.com/2009/10/07/setting-up-radiant-cms-0-8-1-on-dreamhost/
** "RadiantCMS on Dreamhost. Tips to solve will_paginate issues":http://pastebin.com/CXGnVZKa
** "WebFaction":http://www.ravelrumba.com/blog/install-radiant-cms-webfaction/
* *Radiant Hosting Providers*
** "AVLUX":avlux specializes in Radiant hosting, hosts the Radiant site, and includes complete setup and support with all hosting plans.
** "Radiant CMS Hosting":radiantcmshosting is a small, inexpensive hosting outfit.
** "RoseHosting.com":https://www.rosehosting.com/ offers fully-managed Radiant CMS hosting with free 24/7 support. They will install and configure Radiant for you for free.

[avlux]http://avlux.net
[radiantcmshosting]http://radiantcmshosting.com/
h2(#basics). The Basics

* *[[Getting Started]]*
* *[[Pages]]*
* *[[Layouts]]*
* *[[Snippets]]*
* *[[Radius Tags]]*
** [[Tags that Insert Content]]
** [[Tags that Change Page Context]]
** [[Tags that Work with Collections]]
** [[Conditional Tags]]
** [[Using the Header Tag]]
** [[Tag Reference|Radiant Tag Reference]]
* *[[Customizing the Admin UI]]* - see also: [[Settings Extension]]
** [[Custom File Not Found Page]] (404 response)
** [[Additional Configuration Options]]
* *[[FAQs|FAQ]]*

h2(#extensions). Extensions

* *[[What are Extensions?|Extensions]]*
* *[[Extension Registry]]*
* *[[Thirdparty Extensions]]*
* *[[Installing Extensions]]*
* *[[Uninstalling Extensions]]*
* *[[Merging Existing Extensions|Merging-Existing-Extensions]]*
* *[[Using Extensions]]*
** [[Blog Extension]] - several blogging features in one package
** [[Blog Tags Extension]] - next/previous page navigation
** "Chronicle Extension":http://blip.tv/file/3479659/ - page, snippet and layout versioning
** [[Comments Extension]] - comments for your blog
** [[Copy Move Extension]] - copy and move pages between parents
** "Custom Fields Extension":http://blip.tv/file/3383150/ - custom fields for pages
** [[CyImage Extension]] - automatic resizing of images using ImageMagick directly on Radiant pages
** "Database Mailer Extension":http://blip.tv/file/3351580/ - database persistence for emailed forms
** [[Gallery Extension]]
** "Globalize2 Extension":http://blip.tv/file/2764221/ - page translation ("part two screencast":http://blip.tv/file/2799309/)
** [[Language Redirect Extension]] - redirect visitors based on language
** [[Mailer Extension]] - great for "Contact Us" style mail forms
** [[MailTo Extension]]
** [[Multi Site Extension]] - host multiple domains with a single Radiant instance - see also: [[vhost extension]]
** [[Page Attachments Extension]] - upload files to pages - see also: [[Paperclipped Extension]]
** [[Paperclipped Extension]] - Great for managing assets such as images, movies, pdf, etc.
** [[Reorder Extension]] - change the order of pages
** [[Scheduler Extension]] - automated expiration and publishing of pages
** [[Search Extension]] - let users search the content of your site
** [[Settings Extension]] - Radiant settings exposed to the admin UI
** [[Siblings Tags Extension]] - next/previous page navigation
** [[Simple Password Extension]]  - simple password extension
** "User Pages Extension":http://github.com/jasiek/radiant-user_pages-extension - introduces page manipulation permissions per user
** "Sitemap XML Extension":http://blip.tv/file/2744169/  - create and manage xml sitemaps
** "SNS (Styles 'n' Scripts) Extension":http://blip.tv/file/3448202/  - better stylesheet and javascript management
** "Stereotype Extension":http://blip.tv/file/3383150/ - inheritable page templates
** [[Tags Extension]] - page tagging as in "web 2.0"
* *[[Creating Your Own Extensions|Creating Extensions]]*
** [[Adding Custom Radius Tags]]
** [[Creating a Link Roll Extension]]
** [[Removing the Scaffold from the Link Roll Extension]]
** [[Altering Tabs in the Admin UI]]
** [[Modifying the Page UI]]
** [[Extending and Overriding Radiant Behavior]]
** [[Creating a Custom Page Type]]
** [[Using Radiant Layouts to Style Extension Controllers]]
** [[How-To: Create An Extension]]
** [[How to enable Travis CI for an extension]]

h2(#howto). How Tos

* [[Accessing Radiant's User Model]]
* [[Using Radiant as a blog]]
* [[Hosting Multiple Websites using mod_proxy]] - see also: [[Multi Site Extension]] and [[vhost extension]]
* [[Making a Sitemap]]
* [[Elegant Page Level CSS]]
* [[Output All Page Parts]]
* [[Reset Your Admin Password]]
* [[Set a Top Level Page per User]]
* [[Setup Development Mode]]
* [[Host a Podcast]]
* [[Change a Page's Publication Date]]
* [[Create an Atom Feed]]
* [[Create a RSS Feed]]
* [[Make a Template from an existing site]]
* [[Migrating from Mephisto]]
* [[Migrating from SQLite to MySQL]]
* [[Setup a MySQL Database]]
* [[Setup a PostgreSQL Database]]
* [[Setup a SQLite Database]]
* [[Setup a DB2 Database]]
* [[Setup a SQL Server Database]]
* [[Using Multiple PostgreSQL Schemas]]
* [[Running on Edge]]
* [[Clear the Page Cache]]
* [[Running on JBoss Rails]]
* [[Using RubyMine debugger]]
* [[Using Devise as an authentication system for Radiant end-users]]
* [[Using cells to render arbitrary Rails views within Radiant pages]]
* [[Disable caching in a Radiant system ]]

h2(#upgrading). Upgrading a Radiant site to a new version

* [[Updating a site from Radiant 0.6.9 to 0.7.1]]


h2(#troubleshooting). Troubleshooting

* [[Index Sitemap Column Headers Error]]
* [[Undefined Method for Enumerable]]
* [[Intermittent Errors with SQLite on Windows]]
* [[No Secret Given to the Protect from Forgery Call]]

h2(#help). Getting Help

Found a bug? Can't get something to work? Having a hard time understanding the documentation on the wiki?

h3. Reporting Bugs or Requesting Features

The best way to report a bug or request a feature is to write the fix or enhancement and then send a "pull request":pull. If you're not that familiar with Git or the Radiant codebase, you can also "file an issue":issue.

[pull]http://github.com/guides/pull-requests
[issue]http://github.com/radiant/radiant/issues

h3. Radiant Users Mailing List

"The mailing list":list is a great place to ask questions about Radiant.

[list]http://radiantcms.org/mailing-list/

<form method="get" action="http://www.google.com/custom">
<p>
<input type="text" name="q" maxlength="255" size="30" />
<input type="submit" value="Search the archives" />

<input type="hidden" name="cof" value="S:http://radiantcms.org;AH:left;AWFID:58d5d515d673927f;" />
<input type="hidden" name="domains" value="lists.radiantcms.org" />
<input type="hidden" name="sitesearch" value="lists.radiantcms.org" value="checked" />
</p>
</form>

h3. IRC

Having trouble using or installing Radiant? Want to share a success story? You can chat with members of the user and developer community in real time in the "#radiantcms":radiantcms channel on irc.freenode.net. You'll need an IRC Client. There's a nice "list of them":irc over on the Ruby on Rails wiki. Additionally, there is "Freenode Webchat":webchat which gives you an IRC Client in your web browser.

[radiantcms]irc://irc.freenode.net/#radiantcms
[irc]http://wiki.rubyonrails.com/rails/pages/IRC
[webchat]http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=radiantcms

h2(#users). Radiant in Action

Due to incessant spam the [[Radiant Users]] page has been removed.

h2(#pros). Radiant Pros

Looking for some help with your website? [[Radiant Pros]] can help you get it done.

h2(#dev). Developers

The best way to learn about Radiant, by far, is to read the source. Ruby is extremely easy to read and Radiant is a straight forward Rails application. So don't be afraid of the source, dig in! The "app directory":app is a good place to start.

[app]http://github.com/radiant/radiant/tree/master/app

* [[Contributing Code]]
* [[The Radiant Ethic]]
* [[Instance vs. Application mode]]

h2(#releases). Releases

* Radiant 0.9.1 - Refraction Release (Bugfix), "Change Log":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/blob/0.9.1/CHANGELOG
* Radiant 0.9.0 - Refraction Release, "Release Notes":http://radiantcms.org/blog/archives/2010/06/25/radiant-0-9-0---refraction-release/, "Change Log":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/blob/0.9.0/CHANGELOG, "Upgrade Notes":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/wiki/Developer-Upgrade-Notes#radiant_0_9
* Radiant 0.8.1 - Luster Release, "Change Log":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/blob/0.8.1/CHANGELOG
* Radiant 0.8.0 - Asterism Release, "Release Notes":http://radiantcms.org/blog/archives/2009/06/14/radiant-0-8-0---asterism-release/, "Change Log":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/blob/0.8.0/CHANGELOG, "Upgrade Notes":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/wiki/Developer-Upgrade-Notes#radiant_0_8
* Radiant 0.7.1 - Engraving Release (Bugfix), "Change Log":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/blob/0.7.1/CHANGELOG
* Radiant 0.7.0 - Intaglio Release, "Release Notes":http://radiantcms.org/blog/archives/2009/02/07/radiant-0-7-0---intaglio-release-final/, "Change Log":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/blob/0.7.0/CHANGELOG, "Upgrade Notes":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/wiki/Developer-Upgrade-Notes#radiant_0_7
* Radiant 0.6.9 - Etch Release (Bugfix), "Release Notes":http://radiantcms.org/blog/archives/2008/08/01/radiant-0-6-9---etch-release-bugfixes/, "Change Log":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/blob/0.6.9/CHANGELOG
* Radiant 0.6.8 - Incise Release, "Change Log":http://github.com/radiant/radiant/blob/0.6.8/CHANGELOG
