Every site needs a sitemap, and Radiant can generate one automatically for the whole site and provide a simple way to exempt pages from the sitemap, all with the built in functionality! 

h2. A Regular Sitemap

h3. Step One

Create a child of the homepage titled @Sitemap@, or something similar, and somewhere in its Body part enter the following:

<pre><code><r:find url="/">
  <r:link />
</r:find>
<ul>
  <r:find url="/">
    <r:snippet name="sitemapper"/>
  </r:find>
</ul></code></pre>

h3. Step Two

Create a [[Snippet|Snippets]] titled @sitemapper@ and contains:

<pre><code><r:children:each by="title" order="asc">
  <r:unless_content part="no-map">
    <li>
      <r:link />
      <r:if_children>
        <ul>
          <r:snippet name="sitemapper" />
        </ul>
      </r:if_children>
    </li>
  </r:unless_content>
</r:children:each></code></pre>

*Note that the tag @<r:if_children>@ was introduced in version 0.6.4 of Radiant. It is possible to create a sitemap without this tag, but it may not pass w3c validation, because it will output an empty @<ul></ul>@.*

h3. Step Three (Optional)

Add a new "Page Part" titled @no-map@ to pages that you do not wish to appear in the Site Map, such a Stylesheet page and the Sitemap page itself.

h2. A Google Sitemap

Using a derivative of the above technique you can also generate a "sitemap.xml":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sitemaps to submit to Google and the other major search engines.

h3. Step One

First create a new [[layout|Layouts]] with @text/xml@ as "Content-Type", and the following content: 

<pre><code><?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <urlset xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9">
    <r:content />
</urlset></code></pre>

h3. Step Two

Create a Google Sitemap page, with @sitemap.xml@ as the "slug". Set the layout to the one we just created and fill it with this content:

<pre><code><r:find url="/">
  <url>
    <loc>http://yourdomain.com/</loc>
    <lastmod><r:date format="%Y-%m-%d" /></lastmod>
    <changefreq>
      <r:if_content part="changefreq">
        <r:content part="changefreq" />
      </r:if_content>
      <r:unless_content part="changefreq">weekly</r:unless_content>
    </changefreq>
    <r:if_content part="priority">
      <priority><r:content part="priority" /></priority>
    </r:if_content>
  </url>
  <r:snippet name="xml_sitemapper" />
</r:find></code></pre>

h3. Step Three

Like with the basic Sitemap page, the magic happens in the @xml_sitemapper@ snippet which needs to be created with the following content:

<pre><code><r:children:each by="title" order="asc">
	<r:unless_content part="no-map">
		<url>
			<loc>http://yourdomain.com<r:url /></loc>
			<lastmod><r:date format="%Y-%m-%d" /></lastmod>
			<changefreq>
				<r:if_content part="changefreq">
					<r:content part="changefreq" />
				</r:if_content>
				<r:unless_content part="changefreq">weekly</r:unless_content>
			</changefreq>
			<r:if_content part="priority">
				<priority>
					<r:content part="priority" />
				</priority>
			</r:if_content>
		</url>
		<r:snippet name="xml_sitemapper" />
	</r:unless_content>
</r:children:each></code></pre>

The @no-map@ page part has the same meaning of the simpler sitemapper snippet. The @changefreq@ page part is used to override the default for the changefreq property (weekly). The @priority@ page part is used to override the default for the (optional) priority property (0.5), when this page part is added, fill in a value in the range of (0.0 to 1.0). Don't forget to change the part @http://yourdomain.com<r:url/>@ to match your domain name.

In some cases the recursive nature of this recipe may produce a SQL error: "stack level too deep" as it does on my Dreamhost'ed Radiant site. See "MySQL SystemStackError: stack level too deep:":http://lists.radiantcms.org/pipermail/radiant/2007-September/006434.html for a discussion. I don't know a work-around for the Dreamhost case because I have no control over the DB server.