h2(#page). @<r:page>@

Causes the tags referring to a page's attributes to refer to the current page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:page>...</r:page></code></pre>

h2(#breadcrumb). @<r:breadcrumb>@

Renders the breadcrumb attribute of the current page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:breadcrumb/></code></pre>

h2(#slug). @<r:slug>@

Renders the slug attribute of the current page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:slug/></code></pre>

h2(#title). @<r:title>@

Renders the title attribute of the current page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:title/></code></pre>

h2(#url). @<r:url>@

Renders the URL attribute of the current page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:url/></code></pre>

h2(#children). @<r:children>@

Gives access to a page's children.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:children>...</r:children></code></pre>

h2(#count). @<r:count>@

Renders the total number of children.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:count/></code></pre>

h2(#children-first). @<r:children:first>@

Returns the first child. Inside this tag all page attribute tags are mapped to
the first child. Takes the same ordering options as @<r:children:each>@.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:children:first>...</r:children:first></code></pre>

h2(#children-last). @<r:children:last>@

Returns the last child. Inside this tag all page attribute tags are mapped to
the last child. Takes the same ordering options as @<r:children:each>@.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:children:last>...</r:children:last></code></pre>

h2(#children-each). @<r:children:each>@

Cycles through each of the children. Inside this tag all page attribute tags
are mapped to the current child page. Note [offset] requires [limit].

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:children:each [offset="number"] [limit="number"] [by="attribute"] [order="asc|desc"] [status="draft|reviewed|published|hidden|all"]>
  ...
</r:children:each></code></pre>

h2(#child). @<r:child>@

Page attribute tags inside of this tag refer to the current child. This is occasionally
useful if you are inside of another tag (like @<r:find>@) and need to refer back to the
current child.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:children:each>
  <r:child>...</r:child>
</r:children:each></code></pre>

h2(#if_first). @<r:if_first>@

Renders the tag contents only if the current page is the first child in the context of
a children:each tag

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:children:each>
  <r:if_first >
    ...
  </r:if_first>
</r:children:each></code></pre>

h2(#unless_first). @<r:unless_first>@

Renders the tag contents unless the current page is the first child in the context of
a children:each tag

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:children:each>
  <r:unless_first >
    ...
  </r:unless_first>
</r:children:each></code></pre>

h2(#if_last). @<r:if_last>@

Renders the tag contents only if the current page is the last child in the context of
a children:each tag

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:children:each>
  <r:if_last >
    ...
  </r:if_last>
</r:children:each></code></pre>

h2(#unless_last). @<r:unless_last>@

Renders the tag contents unless the current page is the last child in the context of
a children:each tag

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:children:each>
  <r:unless_last >
    ...
  </r:unless_last>
</r:children:each></code></pre>

h2(#headers). @<r:header>@

Renders the tag contents only if the contents do not match the previous header. This
is extremely useful for rendering date headers for a list of child pages.

If you would like to use several header blocks you may use the @name@ attribute to
name the header. When a header is named it will not restart until another header of
the same name is different.

Using the @restart@ attribute you can cause other named headers to restart when the
present header changes. Simply specify the names of the other headers in a semicolon
separated list.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:children:each>
  <r:header [name="header_name"] [restart="name1[;name2;...]"]>
    ...
  </r:header>
</r:children:each></code></pre>

h2(#parent). @<r:parent>@

Page attribute tags inside this tag refer to the parent of the current page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:parent>...</r:parent></code></pre>

h2(#if_parent). @<r:if_parent>@

Renders the contained elements only if the current contextual page has a parent, i.e.
is not the root page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:if_parent>...</r:if_parent></code></pre>

h2(#unless_parent). @<r:unless_parent>@

Renders the contained elements only if the current contextual page has no parent, i.e.
is the root page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:unless_parent>...</r:unless_parent></code></pre>

h2(#if_children). @<r:if_children>@

Renders the contained elements only if the current contextual page has one or
more child pages. The @status@ attribute limits the status of found child pages
to the given status, the default is @"published"@. @status="all"@ includes all
non-virtual pages regardless of status.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:if_children [status="published"]>...</r:if_children></code></pre>

h2(#unless_children). @<r:unless_children>@

Renders the contained elements only if the current contextual page has no children.
The @status@ attribute limits the status of found child pages to the given status,
the default is @"published"@. @status="all"@ includes all non-virtual pages
regardless of status.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:unless_children [status="published"]>...</r:unless_children></code></pre>

h2(#cycle). @<r:cycle>@

Renders one of the passed values based on a global cycle counter. Use the @reset@
attribute to reset the cycle to the beginning. Use the @name@ attribute to track
multiple cycles; the default is @cycle@.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:cycle values="first, second, third" [reset="true|false"] [name="cycle"]/></code></pre>

h2(#content). @<r:content>@

Renders the main content of a page. Use the @part@ attribute to select a specific
page part. By default the @part@ attribute is set to body. Use the @inherit@
attribute to specify that if a page does not have a content part by that name that
the tag should render the parent's content part. By default @inherit@ is set to
@false@. Use the @contextual@ attribute to force a part inherited from a parent
part to be evaluated in the context of the child page. By default 'contextual'
is set to true.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:content/></code></pre>

h2(#field). @<r:field>@

Renders the content of the field given in the @name@ attribute.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:field name="Keywords" /></code></pre>

h2(#if_content). @<r:if_content>@

Renders the containing elements if all of the listed parts exist on a page.
By default the @part@ attribute is set to @body@, but you may list more than one
part by separating them with a comma. Setting the optional @inherit@ to true will
search ancestors independently for each part. By default @inherit@ is set to @false@.

When listing more than one part, you may optionally set the @find@ attribute to @any@
so that it will render the containing elements if any of the listed parts are found.
By default the @find@ attribute is set to @all@.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:if_content [part="part_name"] [inherit="true|false"] [contextual="true|false"]>...</r:if_content></code></pre>

h2(#unless_content). @<r:unless_content>@

The opposite of the @if_content@ tag. It renders the contained elements if all of the
specified parts do not exist. Setting the optional @inherit@ to true will search
ancestors independently for each part. By default @inherit@ is set to @false@.

When listing more than one part, you may optionally set the @find@ attribute to @any@
so that it will not render the containing elements if any of the listed parts are found.
By default the @find@ attribute is set to @all@.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:unless_content [part="part_name"] [inherit="true|false"] [contextual="true|false"]>...</r:unless_content></code></pre>

h2(#if_field). @<r:if_field>@

Renders the contained elements if the field given in the @name@ attribute exists. The tag also takes an optional @equals@ or @matches@ attribute; these will expand the tag if the field's content equals or matches the given string or regex.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:if_field name="author" [equals|matches="John"] [ignore_case="true|false"]>...</r:if_field></code></pre>

h2(#unless_field). @<r:unless_field>@

The opposite of @if_field@. Renders the contained elements unless the field given in the @name@ attribute exists. The tag also takes an optional @equals@ or @matches@ attribute; these will expand the tag unless the field's content equals or matches the given string or regex.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:unless_field name="author" [equals|matches="John"] [ignore_case="true|false"]>...</r:unless_field></code></pre>


h2(#if_url). @<r:if_url>@

Renders the containing elements only if the page's url matches the regular expression
given in the @matches@ attribute. If the @ignore_case@ attribute is set to false, the
match is case sensitive. By default, @ignore_case@ is set to true.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:if_url matches="regexp" [ignore_case="true|false"]>...</r:if_url></code></pre>

h2(#unless_url). @<r:unless_url>@

The opposite of the @if_url@ tag.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:unless_url matches="regexp" [ignore_case="true|false"]>...</r:unless_url></code></pre>

h2(#if_ancestor_or_self). @<r:if_ancestor_or_self>@

Renders the contained elements if the current contextual page is either the actual page or one of its parents.

This is typically used inside another tag (like @<r:children:each>@) to add conditional mark-up if the child element is or descends from the current page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:if_ancestor_or_self>...</r:if_ancestor_or_self></code></pre>

h2(#unless_ancestor_or_self). @<r:unless_ancestor_or_self>@

Renders the contained elements unless the current contextual page is either the actual page or one of its parents.

This is typically used inside another tag (like @<r:children:each>@) to add conditional mark-up unless the child element is or descends from the current page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:unless_ancestor_or_self>...</r:unless_ancestor_or_self></code></pre>

h2(#if_self). @<r:if_self>@

Renders the contained elements if the current contextual page is also the actual page.

This is typically used inside another tag (like @<r:children:each>@) to add conditional mark-up if the child element is the current page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:if_self>...</r:if_self></code></pre>

h2(#unless_self). @<r:unless_self>@

Renders the contained elements unless the current contextual page is also the actual page.

This is typically used inside another tag (like @<r:children:each>@) to add conditional mark-up unless the child element is the current page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:unless_self>...</r:unless_self></code></pre>

h2(#author). @<r:author>@

Renders the name of the author of the current page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:author/></code></pre>

h2(#date). @<r:date>@

Renders the date based on the current page (by default when it was published or created).
The format attribute uses the same formating codes used by the Ruby @strftime@ function. By
default it's set to @%A, %B %d, %Y@. The @for@ attribute selects which date to render. Valid
options are @published_at@, @created_at@, @updated_at@, and @now@. @now@ will render the
current date/time, regardless of the page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:date [format="%A, %B %d, %Y"] [for="published_at"]/></code></pre>

h2(#link). @<r:link>@

Renders a link to the page. When used as a single tag it uses the page's title
for the link name. When used as a double tag the part in between both tags will
be used as the link text. The link tag passes all attributes over to the HTML
@a@ tag. This is very useful for passing attributes like the @class@ attribute
or @id@ attribute. If the @anchor@ attribute is passed to the tag it will
append a pound sign (@#@) followed by the value of the attribute to
the @href@ attribute of the HTML @a@ tag--effectively making an HTML anchor.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:link [anchor="name"] [other attributes...]/></code></pre>

or

<pre><code><r:link [anchor="name"] [other attributes...]>click here</r:link></code></pre>

h2(#breadcrumbs). @<r:breadcrumbs>@

Renders a trail of breadcrumbs to the current page. The separator attribute
specifies the HTML fragment that is inserted between each of the breadcrumbs. By
default it is set to @>@. The boolean nolinks attribute can be specified to render
breadcrumbs in plain text, without any links (useful when generating title tag).

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:breadcrumbs [separator="separator_string"] [nolinks="true"]/></code></pre>

h2(#snippet). @<r:snippet>@

Renders the snippet specified in the @name@ attribute within the context of a page.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:snippet name="snippet_name"/></code></pre>

When used as a double tag, the part in between both tags may be used within the
snippet itself, being substituted in place of @<r:yield/>@.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:snippet name="snippet_name">Lorem ipsum dolor...</r:snippet></code></pre>

h2(#yield). @<r:yield>@

Used within a snippet as a placeholder for substitution of child content, when
the snippet is called as a double tag.

*Usage (within a snippet):*

<pre><code><div id="outer">
  <p>before</p>
  <r:yield/>
  <p>after</p>
</div></code></pre>

If the above snippet was named "yielding", you could call it from any Page,
Layout or Snippet as follows:

<pre><code><r:snippet name="yielding">Content within</r:snippet></code></pre>

Which would output the following:

<pre><code><div id="outer">
  <p>before</p>
  Content within
  <p>after</p>
</div></code></pre>

When called in the context of a Page or a Layout, @<r:yield/>@ outputs nothing.

h2(#find). @<r:find>@

Inside this tag all page related tags refer to the page found at the @url@ attribute.
@url@s may be relative or absolute paths.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:find url="value_to_find">...</r:find></code></pre>

h2(#random). @<r:random>@

Randomly renders one of the options specified by the @option@ tags.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:random>
  <r:option>...</r:option>
  <r:option>...</r:option>
  ...
</r:random></code></pre>

h2(#option). @<r:option>@

see "@<r:random>@":#random

h2(#comment). @<r:comment>@

Nothing inside a set of comment tags is rendered.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:comment>...</r:comment></code></pre>

h2(#escape_html). @<r:escape_html>@

Escapes angle brackets, etc. for rendering in an HTML document.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:escape_html>...</r:escape_html></code></pre>

h2(#rfc1123_date). @<r:rfc1123_date>@

Outputs the published date using the format mandated by RFC 1123. (Ideal for RSS feeds.)

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:rfc1123_date/></code></pre>

h2(#navigation). @<r:navigation>@

Renders a list of links specified in the @urls@ attribute according to three
states:

* @normal@ specifies the normal state for the link
* @here@ specifies the state of the link when the url matches the current
  page's URL
* @selected@ specifies the state of the link when the current page matches
  is a child of the specified url

The @between@ tag specifies what should be inserted in between each of the links.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:navigation urls="[Title: url | Title: url | ...]">
  <r:normal><a href="<r:url />"><r:title /></a></r:normal>
  <r:here><strong><r:title /></strong></r:here>
  <r:selected><strong><a href="<r:url />"><r:title /></a></strong></r:selected>
  <r:between> | </r:between>
</r:navigation></code></pre>

h2(#if_dev). @<r:if_dev>@

Renders the containing elements only if Radiant in is development mode.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:if_dev>...</r:if_dev></code></pre>

h2(#unless_dev). @<r:unless_dev>@

The opposite of the @if_dev@ tag.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:unless_dev>...</r:unless_dev></code></pre>

h2(#status). @<r:status>@

Prints the page's status as a string. Optional attribute 'downcase'
will cause the status to be all lowercase.

h3. Usage

<pre><code><r:status [downcase='true']/></code></pre>

h2(#meta). @<r:meta>@

The namespace for 'meta' attributes. If used as a singleton tag, both the description
and keywords fields will be output as &lt;meta /&gt; tags unless the attribute 'tag' is set to 'false'.

*Usage*:

<pre><code><r:meta [tag="false"]/></code></pre>

or

<pre><code><r:meta>
  <r:description [tag="false"]/>
  <r:keywords [tag="false"]/>
</r:meta>
</code></pre>

h2(#meta-description). @<r:meta:description>@

Emits the page description field in a meta tag, unless attribute
'tag' is set to 'false'.

*Usage*:

<pre><code><r:meta:description [tag="false"]/></code></pre>

h2(#meta-keywords). @<r:meta:keywords>@

Emits the page keywords field in a meta tag, unless attribute
'tag' is set to 'false'.

*Usage*:

<pre><code><r:meta:keywords [tag="false"]/></code></pre>