The simplest of uses for a Radius tag is to insert some "page attribute":pages#attributes or "page part content":pages#parts directly in place.

Where square brackets are used below, they indicate that the thing contained inside is optional (otherwise it is required), and things inside square brackets separated by a bar are the possible options when the field is not free form. If you decide to include it, don't include the square brackets - e.g.:

<pre><code><r:content [part="part_name"]/></code></pre>

...indicates that you could use the following:

<pre><code><r:content part="extended"/></code></pre>

h2. Example Usage

h3. Links

The @<r:link/>@ tag is useful for creating a hyperlink to the current page. It can be used in a couple of ways. If you call @<r:link/>@ as a single, self-closing tag, it behaves in a similar fashion to the @<r:title/>@ tag: it inserts the page title, but this time wrapped as a link pointing to the URL of the current page. For a page called "About us", whose URL is @/about-us@, the following:

<pre><code><r:link/></code></pre>

would output:

<pre><code><a href="/about-us/">About us</a></code></pre>

If you want to specify the link text, you can just expand it into a double-tag:

<pre><code><r:link>Read more about us</r:link></code></pre>

which gives:

<pre><code><a href="/about-us/">Read more about us</a></code></pre>

If you were to update the slug for this page to just @about@, then any @<r:link>@ tags referring to this page would automatically have their @href@ attribute updated to point to the updated URL.

h3. Navigation

Renders a list of links specified in the @urls@ attribute (separated by a vertical bar "|") according to three states:

* @normal@ specifies the normal state for the link
* @here@ specifies the state of the link when the url matches the current page's url
* @selected@ specifies the state of the link when the current page is a child of the specified url

The @between@ tag specifies what should be inserted in-between each of the links.

<pre><code><r:navigation urls="Page 1: /1|Page 2: /2|Page 3: /3">
  <r:normal><r:link/></r:normal>
  <r:here><r:link class="here"/></r:here>
  <r:selected><r:link class="selected"/></r:selected>
  <r:between> | </r:between>
</r:navigation></code></pre>

If you need to use external URLs in your navigation, the colon in @http://@ will confuse the parser, so either use Decimal-Entity Notation:

<pre><code><r:navigation urls="Home: /|Git: http&#58;//www.github.com"></code></pre>

Also comes in handy with port numbers:

<pre><code><r:navigation urls="Home: /|External: http&#58;//www.mysite.com&#58;8000"></code></pre>

Or, use a double slash:

<pre><code><r:navigation urls="Home: /|Photographs: //www.externalsite.com"></code></pre>

The double-slash option is probably more standards-compliant as it is simply an RFC 2396 "Network-Path Reference".

h3. Title

Say we had a page called "About us", we might start the page like this:

<pre><code><h1><r:title/></h1>
<p>Lorem ipsum dolor...</code></pre>

Which would be output as follows:

<pre><code><h1>About us</h1>
<p>Lorem ipsum dolor...</code></pre>

The nice thing about using the @<r:title/>@ tag, instead of just writing "About us" in the page body, is that if you were to rename the page (e.g. to just "About"), then the heading would be automatically updated.

h2. All Tags that Insert Content

* @<r:author/>@
* @<r:breadcrumb/>@
* @<r:breadcrumbs [separator="separator_string"] [nolinks="true|false"]/>@
* @<r:comment/>@
* @<r:content [part="part_name"] [inherit="true|false"] [contextual="true|false"]/>@
* @<r:count/>@
* @<r:cycle values="1, 2, 3" [reset="true|false"] [name="cycle"]/>@
* @<r:date [format="%A, %B %d, %Y"] [for="created_at|now|published_at|updated_at"]/>@
* @<r:escape_html/>@
* @<r:link [anchor="name"] [other attributes...]/>@
* @<r:link [anchor="name"] [other attributes...]>...</r:link>@
* @<r:meta:description [tag="true|false"]/>@
* @<r:meta:keywords [tag="true|false"]/>@
* @<r:meta [tag="true|false"]/>@
* @<r:navigation urls="[Title: url|Title: url]>...</r:navigation>@
* @<r:option/>@
* @<r:rfc1123_date/>@
* @<r:slug/>@
* @<r:snippet name="snippet_name"/>@
* @<r:snippet name="snippet_name">...</r:snippet>@
* @<r:status [downcase='true|false']/>@
* @<r:title/>@
* @<r:url/>@
* @<r:yield/>@

For usage of a particular tag refer to the [[tag reference|Radius Tag Reference]].