*This is a work in progress.*

This is a quick run down of extensions used to publish blogs with Radiant. However, Radiant is a very flexible system and there are other ways of doing things.

h2. Basic Blog Features

* Articles
* Comments
* Tags
* Post to Post Navigation

h2. Articles

The simple approach to using Radiant as a blog is to create one page with a page type of *Archive* and add a child page to the archive to create a new post. 

A simple set up would result in a page structure like this:

* Home
** About (Not blog post)
** Articles (Archive page type)
*** %B %Y Archive (Archive Month page type)
*** Post 1 (blog post)
*** Post 2 (also blog post)
*** ...
** Etc.

You can then use something like this to link to your monthly archive pages:

<pre><code><ul>
  <r:find url="/articles/">
    <r:children:each order="desc">
      <r:header>
        <li><a href="<r:date format="/articles/%Y/%m/" />"><r:date format="%B %Y" /></a></li>
      </r:header>
    </r:children:each>
  </r:find>
</ul></code></pre>

And then use something like this on your home page to pull in your most recent posts:

<pre><code><r:find url="/articles/">
  <r:children:first order="desc" by="published_at">
    <!--Display your entire first post here-->
  </r:children:first>
  <r:children:each order="desc" by="published_at" limit="4" offset="1">
    <!--Display partial posts here (I use a summary/excerpt page part) -->
  </r:children:each>
</r:find></code></pre>

and something like this in the body of the @%B %Y Archive@ page:

<pre><code><r:archive:children:each order="asc">
<div class="entry">
  <h3><r:link /></h3>
  <r:content />
  <r:if_content part="extended"><r:link anchor="extended">more&#8230;</r:link></r:if_content>
  <p class="info">Posted by <r:author /> on <r:date format="%d %b %Y" /></p>
</div>
</r:archive:children:each></code></pre>

The simple blog template has this archive structured setup by default. It is a good starting point, and worth at least playing around with.

If you intend to blog on specific categories and would like to navigate each category's archive separately Sean Cribbs has "a nice technique.":http://pastie.org/332219  *Note:* Sean's technique requires the installation of the "aggregation extension.":http://github.com/radiant/radiant-aggregation-extension/tree

h2. Comments

Refer to the [[Comments Extension]] page for more information.

h2. Tagging

Refer to the [[Tags Extension]] page for more information.
Also available is the "Taggable Extension":http://github.com/spanner/radiant-taggable-extension .

h2. Next/Previous Radius Tags

You have multiple options for navigating between blog posts.

h3. Blog Tags Extension

The Blog Tags extension creates next/previous tags for each blog entry.

Refer to the [[Blog Tags Extension]] page for more information.

h3. Siblings Tags Extension

The Siblings Tags extension does a similar task but sets them in a namespace of @siblings:next@ and @siblings:previous@ (as well as other tags).

Refer to the [[Siblings Tags Extension]] page for more information.

h3. Blog Extension

The Blog extension takes the features of siblings_tags, adds to them and provides a way to loop through each page by author.

Refer to the [[Blog Extension]] page for more information.

h2. Separate category's archive

Without extensions. All articles in one branch. Create an empty new page part, named like a category, in the example kubuntu. Then the category can be listed using something like this:

<pre><code><r:find url="/posts">
  <r:children:each order="desc">
    <r:if_content part="kubuntu">
      <div class="posts-menu">
        <r:link />
      </div>
    </r:if_content>
  </r:children:each>
</r:find></code></pre>
